# Big Data Application - Project progress report 1

## Group information
| ID | Name | 
|---|---|
| 21127170 | Nguyễn Thế Thiện|
| 21127326 | Nguyễn Trần Trung Kiên |
| 21127329 | Châu Tấn Kiệt|

## Problem summary

### Problem

#### Title: Real-time anime recommendation system based on user ratings.

#### Description:

Analyze real-time anime ratings data using Big Data and Machine Learning tools, in order to recommend animes a user has yet to watch, based on the user's rating history.

**Input**: User's rating history on watched animes.

**Output**: Ranking list for recommended animes fitting user's tastes.

### Dataset

**Anime Dataset 2023** [1] by username Sajid from Kaggle, which is a collection of user and anime ratings on one of the largest anime databases and communities - MyAnimeList (myanimelist.net).

The files contributing to the dataset:

**users-score-2023.csv** (1.16GB): **The main data** consisting of user ratings on anime titles, provided by 270K users on 16K anime titles, with a total of 24.3M samples, **99.48% sparsity rate** for only the observed users and anime titles.

**anime-dataset-2023.csv** (15.92MB): Details of around 25K anime titles on MyAnimeList.

**user-details-2023.csv** (73.93MB): Details of around 730K users registered on MyAnimeList.

### Data storing and processing tool(s)

**Redis** [2]: NoSQL database supports real-time data streaming.

**Apache Spark** [3]: real-time data processing.

### Recommender system (RS)

**Apache Spark MLlib RS** [3] as it comes with Apache Spark mentioned above, and is a well-known standard Machine Learning library. It contains Alternating Least Squares (ALS) matrix factorization to learn latent factors.

### Data visualization
#### Type(s)

**Network graph** in order to present the interactions between the observed users and items.

#### Tool(s)

**NumPy Matplotlib** [5]: supports real-time data visualization for Python.

**NetworkX** [6]: a graph generating Python library.

## Main tasks

1. **Data ingestion**: Set up Redis database with imported data from the dataset files, and set up data streaming connection.

2. **Data streaming & preprocessing**: Apache Spark Streaming simulates real-time data from Redis database, then clean and prepare the raw data before feeding into the recommendation system.

3. **Real-time RS model training**: Pre-built model from MLlib is trained by feeding real-time data, from Spark Streaming.

4. **RS in use**: Input user's rating history to predict a ranking list for recommended animes which user has not watched.

5. **Real-time dashboard**: Visualize analyzed data and predictions with NetworkX-assisted Matplotlib.

## Plan progress

1. **Preparation**: 60% done.
- Set up Redis database and data streaming to Spark.
- Figure data preprocessing strategies, perform data preprocessing on dataset using Spark.
- Set up RS model from MLlib, learn its required input and output forms for training and testing.
- Figure out how to save RS model into a file for further training.

2. **Tool testing and systematic setups**: 0% done.
- Perform real-time data processing using Redis and Spark, with data visualization using NetworkX and Matplotlib.
- Set up a basic user interface to apply the use of RS.
- Test RS model training on small scale with multiple batches, with saving and loading RS model.

3. **Main events**: 0% done.
- Perform real-time RS model training on dataset.
- Research and experiment documentation.
- Application of RS model into the problem.

4. **Project conclusion**: 0% done.
- Research and experiment documentation and presentation with Canva [7].
- Graphical demonstration.

## Assignments

*Note: Date used here is in form (YY/)MM/DD, time used here is in 24-hour format: HH:MM.*

**All works must be draft-documented in text files (md, txt, pdf, docs) upon finished working.**

|Sprint no.|Who|Job(s)|Tool(s)|Start|Due|Done|Not done|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|1-2|Kiên|Set up real-time data streaming from database|Redis, Spark|03/07 06:00|03/16 21:00|Set up Redis and configurations; Push dataset on live Redis DB|Streaming data to Spark|
|1-2|Thiện|Figure data preprocessing strategies|Spark|03/07 06:00|03/16 21:00|Data cleaning for categorical columns|Data cleaning for numerical columns; Data integration; Data transformation|
|1-2|Kiệt|Choose and set up RS model, learn its inputs from Spark and outputs|Spark, MLlib|03/07 06:00|03/16 21:00|Choose ALS model for batch processing; MLlib support for saving and loading models|(empty)|

## Self-assessment
### Struggles
1. **Underestimated the difficulty and time of tasks**: Data preprocessing and data storing took more time than it should, especially when with little experience.
2. **Unexpected happenings from the outside**: Juggling multiple tasks and being overwhelmed.
3. **Post-vacation blues**: Some members have yet to recover from Lunar New Year vacation to keep high work efficiency, though relieved by task planning and active communication.
### Problems:
1. **Problem re-definition**: Arised worries during data preprocessing about how to deal with empty values, such as what the problem really is and the steps to solving the problem. "The more I read, the less I know".
2. **Dealing with high dimensionality**: One-hot encoding on unordered labels gives too many columns, either dimension reduction (UBCF-IBCF) or multiple minimum support metrics could work. 

## References
[1] Sajid Uddin (2023). Anime Dataset 2023. *Kaggle: Your Machine Learning and Data Science Community*. https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/dbdmobile/myanimelist-dataset?resource=download

[2] Salvatore Sanfilippo (2009). Redis 7.4.2 (2025). https://redis.io 

[3] Matei Zaharia (2014). Apache Spark 3.5.4 (2024). https://spark.apache.org/

[5] John D. Hunter (2003). Matplotlib 3.10.0 (2024). https://matplotlib.org/

[6] Aric Hagberg, Pieter Swart, Dan Schult (2005). NetworkX 3.4.2 (2024). https://networkx.org/

[7] Melanie Perkins, Cliff Obrecht, Cameron Adams (2013). Canva. https://canva.com